{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opszE0A3D_GRAD_wght2BC0000;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opszC0000_GRAD_wght;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz110000_GRAD_wght2BC0000;\f8\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-RegularItalic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green255\blue6;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww30020\viewh19260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs16 \cf2 Multiple Choice\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 1. What is Business Intelligence (BI)?
\f2\b0 \
a) A tool for hardware optimization.\
b) [X] A system for analyzing business data.\
c) [X] A methodology for improving decision-making using data.\
d) [X] A process for collecting, integrating, and presenting business data.\
\
\

\f1\b 2. What types of analytics are part of BI?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X]  Diagnostic analytics.\
b) Hypothetical analytics.\
c) [X] Prescriptive analytics.\
d) [X] Predictive analytics.\
\

\f1\b 3. What is Operational Business Intelligence (OBI)?
\f2\b0 \
a) BI focused on long-term decision-making.\
b) [X] Real-time insights to support dynamic environments.\
c) A type of BI for descriptive modelling.\
d) A focus on retrospective data analysis.\
\

\f1\b 4. Which of the following are NOT potential pitfalls in implementing BI?
\f2\b0 \
a) Shadow BI practices.\
b) Data silos between departments.\
c) [X] Data-Communication between departments.\
d) Lack of a data-driven culture.\
\

\f1\b 5. What is the relationship between BI and data warehouses?
\f2\b0 \
a) Data warehouses are not used in BI.\
b) [X] BI tools utilize data warehouses for analysis and reporting.\
c) Data warehouses store unstructured data for BI tools.\
d) BI is part of a Data warhouse.\
\

\f1\b 6. What are the ACID properties in databases?
\f2\b0 \
a) Atomicity, Consistency, Independence, Durability.\
b) [X] Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.\
c) Accuracy, Complexity, Integration, Dependency.\
d) Availability, Continuity, Isolation, Durability.\
\

\f1\b 7. What does Isolation ensure in a database transaction?
\f2\b0 \
a) Transactions are isolated from hardware failures.\
b) [X] Transactions do not interfere with each other.\
c) Transactions automatically scale in volume.\
d) Transactions are reversible.\
\

\f1\b 8. What is indexing in a relational database?
\f2\b0 \
a) A method to secure data.\
b) [X] A process to speed up query performance on data tables.\
c) [O] A feature to efficiently removing data tables from a database.\
d) A feature for backup optimization.\
\
\

\f1\b 9. What are the main properties of a primary key in a relational database?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Primary keys are indexed.\
b) The ACID criteria are properties of a primary key.\
c) Primary keys exists only in object storages.\
d) [X] Primary keys are unique.\
\

\f1\b 10. What is the main advantage of document databases?
\f2\b0 \
a) Support for unstructured and hierarchical data.\
b) Compliance with strict ACID criteria.\
c) [X] Schema-less or schema-flexible structure.\
d) Compatibility with tabular data only.\
\

\f1\b 11. What is a Data Warehouse?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] A central hub for structured data storage.\
b) A repository for machine learning models.\
c) A system optimized for exploratory data analysis.\
d) [X] A high-performance query engine for structured data.\
\

\f1\b 12. What are the possible disadvantages of a data warehouse? 
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Difficulty handling schema changes.\
b) [X] Lack of support for unstructured data.\
c) High storage costs for raw data.\
d) Limited compatibility with ETL processes.\
\

\f1\b 13. What is a Hybrid Data Lake?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] A system combining the strengths of Data Lakes and Warehouses.\
b) A structured database optimized for real-time data.\
c) [O] A methodology for building ETL pipelines.\
d) A scalable system with reduced complexity.\
\

\f1\b 14. Which of the following are pros of a Lakehouse?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Combines Data Warehouse and Data Lake features.\
b) [X] Reduces complexity compared to Hybrid Data Lakes.\
c) Offers the same performance as relational databases.\
d) Eliminates the need for ETL processes.\
\

\f1\b 15. What is the \'93no free lunch\'94 theorem in database optimization?
\f2\b0 \
a) All tasks can be optimized without trade-offs.\
b) [X] Faster read operations may slow down write operations.\
c) Query optimization always increases costs.\
d) All database types are equally efficient.\
\

\f1\b 16. Which of the following are types of cloud services?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).\
d) Backup as a Service (BaaS).\
c) [X]Software as a Service (SaaS).\
d) [X] Platform as a Service (PaaS).\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 17. What is the primary role of Pandas in BI?
\f2\b0 \
a) Visualisation of data trends.\
b) [X] Aggregation and transformation of data.\
c) Building machine learning models.\
d) Enhancing database security.\
\

\f1\b 18. What is the main purpose of a Group By operation?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Splitting data into groups for agregation.\
b) [X] Generating summary statistics for groups.\
c) Visualizing data clusters.\
d) Combining unrelated datasets.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 19. What is prescriptive analytics?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Analytics that offer actionable recommendations based on predictions.\
b) Analytics that only summarize historical trends.\
c) Analytics that automate the visualization process.\
d) Analytics focused on exploratory data analysis.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 20. What is the role of a foreign key in relational databases?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] To link two tables through a shared identifier.\
b) [X] To ensure data consistency within a single table.\
c) To create indexes for faster querying.\
d) To enable hierarchical data storage.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 21. What is the difference between structured and unstructured data?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] Structured data follows a predefined schema, while unstructured data lacks inherent organization.\
b) Structured data is used only in relational databases, while unstructured data is used in time-series databases.\
c) Unstructured data always requires transformation before analysis.\
d) [X] Structured data cannot store hierarchical relationships.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 22. What is the role of machine learning models in BI?
\f2\b0 \
a) [O] Automating complex ETL processes.\
b) [X] Enhancing predictive and prescriptive analytics.\
c) Eliminating the need for human decision-making completely.\
d) Integrating unstructured data into relational databases.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 23. Why are feedback loops important in BI?
\f2\b0 \
a) They automate the decision-making process.\
b) [X] They allow organizations to continuously refine strategies based on data insights.\
c) They replace traditional reporting methods.\
d) They ensure data quality in real-time.\cf3 \
\

\f1\b \cf2 24. What is NOT a python built-in data type?
\f2\b0 \
a) [X] A pandas DataFrame\
b) Mapping Type \'91dict\'92\
c) Text Type \'91str\'92\
d) A numeric type, e.g. int\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs18 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs16 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 25. What is Python?\

\f5\b0 a) A type of snake\uc0\u8232 b) [X] A programming language\u8232 c) A text editor for coding\u8232 d) A database management system
\f6\fs18 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\b\fs16 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 26. Why is Python popular for business intelligence tasks?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b0 \cf2 a) [X] It is simple and readable\uc0\u8232 b) [X] There are extensive libraries for data-related tasks\u8232 c) [X] It is more versatile than Excel\u8232 d) It comes pre-installed with Microsoft Office\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\b \cf2 27. What is Matplotlib?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b0 \cf2 a) [X] A Python library for data visualization\uc0\u8232 b) A Python library for machine learning\u8232 c) A Python library for data aggregation\u8232 d) A Python library for web scraping\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\b \cf2 28. Can Python be used for artificial intelligence tasks?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b0 \cf2 a) [X] Yes, Python can be used for AI tasks\uc0\u8232 b) No, Python is only for web development\u8232 c) [X] Yes, there are libraries like PyTorch and TensorFlow for neural networks\u8232 d) No, Python is too slow for AI tasks\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\b \cf2 29. Which of the following is NOT a use case for Python?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b0 \cf2 a) Business intelligence\uc0\u8232 b) Data science\u8232 c) Artificial intelligence\u8232 d) [X]Video game graphics rendering\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f7\b \cf2 30. Which Python libraries are commonly used for neural networks and artificial intelligence tasks?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl312\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f5\b0 \cf2 a) Pandas\uc0\u8232 b) Matplotlib\u8232 c) [X] PyTorch\u8232 d) [X] TensorFlow\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 31. What are the crucial steps in training a model?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] Specify the model and its parameters\uc0\u8232 b) [X] Choose a loss function\u8232 c) [X] Minimize the loss function\u8232 d) Perform data preprocessing only\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 32. What is a model in general?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] A prescription that takes input features and assigns a prediction for the target\uc0\u8232 b) A database used to store training data\u8232 c) A set of training algorithms\u8232 d) A method for measuring loss in neural networks\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 33. What is a loss function?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] A function used to compare true and predicted target values\uc0\u8232 b) A function to update the weights of the model\u8232 c) A function that optimizes the model parameters\u8232 d) A metric used to evaluate the model's performance\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 34. Which data are needed for training?\

\f5\b0 a) Only the true target values\uc0\u8232 b) Only the features of the data\u8232 c) [X] Training samples of the features and true target values\u8232 d) Validation data\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 35. What is the universal approximation theorem for deep neural networks?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] A neural network with enough layers and non-linear activation functions can approximate almost any function\uc0\u8232 b) The theorem explains the speed of neural networks\u8232 c) A deep neural network can only approximate linear functions\u8232 d) Neural networks are universally beautiful\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 36. What is a deep neural network?
\f5\b0 \uc0\u8232 a) A network with a single layer\u8232 b) A network used exclusively for classification tasks\
c) [X] A network with multiple hidden layers that generalizes linear regression\uc0\u8232 d) A network used to calculate the loss function\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 37. How does a deep neural network compare to linear regression?
\f5\b0 \uc0\u8232 a) Linear regression uses a loss function tailored to the problem, while deep neural networks use mean squared error\
b) [X] Deep neural networks have hidden layers, allowing for more flexible curve fitting\uc0\u8232 c) Deep neural networks have no loss function\u8232 d) Linear regression cannot be used for any machine learning tasks\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 38. What is a network architecture?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] The model specification, consisting of input, hidden, and output layers\uc0\u8232 b) A method for training the neural network\u8232 c) A process for splitting data into training and test sets\u8232 d) A type of optimization algorithm used in training\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 39. What is the gradient descent optimizer?\

\f5\b0 a) [X] It finds the minimum of a function by iterating along the negative gradient direction\uc0\u8232 b) It optimizes the training data\u8232 c) It stops the training process once the model is accurate\
d) [X] It is used to calculate the weights in linear regression\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 40. Is an optimizer necessary for linear regression?\

\f5\b0 a) Yes, it is always needed\uc0\u8232 b) [X] No, the optimal weights can be computed analytically for linear regression\u8232 c) Yes, but only for non-linear models\u8232 d) No, but it can make the process faster\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 41. What is back-propagation in the context of neural networks?\

\f5\b0 a) An algorithm to update the loss function\uc0\u8232 b) [X] A method to find the gradients of the model's weights and biases with respect to the loss function.\u8232 c) A technique to avoid overfitting\u8232 d) A way to optimize the activation functions\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 42. What is an activation function?\

\f5\b0 a) A linear function applied to the output layer\uc0\u8232 b) [X] A non-linear function applied to each hidden layer\u8232 c) A function used to split the data during training\u8232 d) A function used to compute the loss of the model\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 43. Why do we need activation functions for neural networks?\

\f5\b0 a) They make the network learn faster\uc0\u8232 b) [X] Without them, adding hidden layers would have no effect\u8232 c) They prevent overfitting\u8232 d) They are used for gradient descent optimization\cf0 \
\

\f4\b \cf2 44. What is overfitting?\

\f5\b0 a) When the model does not learn anything from the training data\uc0\u8232 b) When the model performs poorly on both training and test data\u8232 c) [X] When the model learns the training data too well, capturing noise that doesn\'92t generalize\u8232 d) When the model doesn\'92t fit the training data at all
\f6\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 Business Intelligence
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx240\tx400\li400\fi-400\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which of the following best describes a key reason organizations adopt Business Intelligence?\
a) To eliminate decision-making processes entirely\
b) To make all data public and transparent\
c) [X] To transform raw data into actionable insights for strategic decisions\
d) To replace the need for human analysts\
	2.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which factor often leads to the emergence of 
\f8\i Shadow BI
\f2\i0  in companies?\
a) [X] Overly strict data governance and cumbersome official BI processes\
b) Full alignment between data teams and business needs\
c) A strong data-driven culture throughout the organization\
d) Having a single source of truth for data\
	3.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  In your own words, explain the difference between 
\f1\b Descriptive Analytics
\f2\b0  and 
\f1\b Prescriptive Analytics
\f2\b0 . Provide an example of when each would be most useful in a retail business.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Descriptive Analytics
\f2\i0  focuses on summarizing historical data to understand past events. In a retail context, this could involve generating monthly sales reports to see which products sold best.\
	\'95	
\f8\i Prescriptive Analytics
\f2\i0  goes a step further by recommending actions based on predictions. For instance, if a prediction model forecasts that winter boots will sell out in the next two weeks, prescriptive analytics might suggest ordering more stock or offering bundled deals to maximize profit.\
\pard\tqr\tx240\tx400\li400\fi-400\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	4.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which of the following is an example of a \'93Data Silo\'94?\
a) When data sets are shared openly among all departments\
b) [X] When each department manages and stores its own data without cross-department accessibility\
c) When the organization invests in data catalogs to standardize metadata\
d) When real-time analytics is prioritized over batch processing\
	5.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  A company complains that their BI dashboards do not drive decision-making because managers continue to trust their intuition. Propose 
\f1\b two
\f2\b0  practical steps the company could take to foster a more data-driven culture.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b Leadership endorsement of data usage
\f2\b0 : Top executives should publicly champion data-driven decisions, discussing outcomes from data insights in company meetings.\
	2.	
\f1\b Success stories and training
\f2\b0 : Showcase success stories of data-driven decisions (e.g., improved marketing ROI) and offer regular BI training sessions, helping managers gain confidence in interpreting and applying data.\
\pard\tqr\tx240\tx400\li400\fi-400\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	6.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  
\f8\i Operational BI
\f2\i0  (OBI) primarily focuses on:\
a) Long-term trend analysis with no real-time components\
b) Reducing the need for transactional databases\
c) [X] Quickly providing insights that drive 
\f1\b immediate
\f2\b0  or near-real-time decisions\
d) Eliminating the necessity of predictive analytics entirely\
	7.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  Identify 
\f1\b two
\f2\b0  potential pitfalls in implementing a BI program (other than data silos and shadow BI) and suggest a remedy for each.
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b Lack of Data Quality
\f2\b0 : Poorly validated or inconsistent data leads to unreliable insights.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Remedy
\f2\i0 : Implement data governance policies, data validation rules, and regular data cleansing.\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	2.	
\f1\b Decision-Action Gap
\f2\b0 : Decision-makers hesitate to act on BI insights.\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Remedy
\f2\i0 : Provide clearer ROI examples and success metrics, tie performance evaluations to the usage of data-driven recommendations.\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Data Management
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	8.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which statement accurately compares a 
\f1\b Data Warehouse
\f2\b0  to a 
\f1\b Data Lake
\f2\b0 ?\
a) Both store only structured data\
b) [X] A Data Lake typically involves schema-on-read, whereas a Data Warehouse uses schema-on-write\
c) Data Warehouses can handle unstructured data more effectively\
d) Data Lakes are better for short-term data retention only\
	9.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  Briefly describe the difference between a 
\f1\b Hybrid Data Lake
\f2\b0  and a 
\f1\b Lakehouse
\f2\b0  architecture. Under which business scenario might a Lakehouse be preferable?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f1\b Hybrid Data Lake
\f2\b0 : Combines both warehouse-like structures and raw data storage, often increasing complexity but allowing different parts of the organization to use the architecture they need.\
	\'95	
\f1\b Lakehouse
\f2\b0 : Merges Data Lake flexibility with some Data Warehouse efficiencies (e.g., structured querying and performance optimizations). It typically has simpler overall architecture than a hybrid approach.\
	\'95	
\f8\i Scenario
\f2\i0 : A Lakehouse can be preferable for a medium-sized business that needs both low-cost storage and robust SQL analytics but wants to minimize maintenance complexity (e.g., not having multiple overlapping systems to manage).\
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	10.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  One main advantage of the 
\f1\b Lakehouse
\f2\b0  approach is:\
a) Complete elimination of ETL processes\
b) [X] A unified platform that combines the low-cost storage of a Data Lake with the structured query performance of a Data Warehouse\
c) Guaranteed schema consistency for every dataset\
d) Lock-in to proprietary vendor architectures\
	11.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  Suppose your company wants real-time data ingestion from IoT devices. Provide 
\f1\b two
\f2\b0  architectural components or services that are essential for enabling real-time analytics in a Data Lake or Lakehouse environment.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b Streaming platform or message broker
\f2\b0 : Services like Apache Kafka, AWS Kinesis, or Azure Event Hubs to collect and ingest continuous data streams from devices in near real-time.\
	2.	
\f1\b Real-time processing layer
\f2\b0 : Tools such as Apache Spark Structured Streaming or Flink to process the data as it arrives and push it to the Lake or Lakehouse for analytics.\
\
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	12.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  When dealing with a 
\f1\b Hybrid Data Lake
\f2\b0 , which of the following is a notable disadvantage?\
a) The inability to store structured data\
b) Reduced complexity compared to a Lakehouse\
c) [X] Potentially higher operational complexity and storage costs\
d) Mandatory real-time ingestion requirements\
	13.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  You are migrating from an on-premises data center to a public cloud. Name at least 
\f1\b two
\f2\b0  considerations or challenges you must address to ensure a smooth data management transition.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b Security & Compliance
\f2\b0 : Ensure encryption, secure access, and compliance with data regulations (GDPR, HIPAA, etc.).\
	2.	
\f1\b Network Bandwidth & Latency
\f2\b0 : Plan for data transfer costs, throughput, and any latency issues that might affect performance.\
	3.	
\f1\b Cost Management
\f2\b0 : Forecast cloud storage, compute, and data egress charges to avoid unexpected overages.\
	4.	
\f1\b Refactoring or re-architecting
\f2\b0  existing workloads and pipelines to utilize cloud services effectively.\
\
\pard\tqr\tx420\tx580\li580\fi-580\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	14.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which best defines the 
\f1\b \'93no free lunch\'94
\f2\b0  principle in data management architectures?\
a) All architectures can achieve high performance with no trade-offs\
b) [X] You can optimize certain aspects (e.g., read performance) only at the expense of others (e.g., write performance)\
c) Larger budgets guarantee best performance across all metrics\
d) ETL pipelines are free in cloud-based solutions
\f0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Database Architectures
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx460\tx620\li620\fi-620\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	16.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  In a 
\f1\b relational database
\f2\b0 , which of the following is 
\f1\b not
\f2\b0  typically enforced by a Primary Key?\
a) Uniqueness of the column(s)\
b) Automatic indexing of the column(s)\
c) Maintenance of referential integrity in other tables\
d) [X] ACID compliance of every transaction\
	17.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  Define 
\f8\i indexing
\f2\i0  in the context of a relational database. When might adding an index hurt overall performance?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Indexing
\f2\i0 : Creating a separate data structure (like a B-tree) that stores a sorted list of key values (e.g., a column) and pointers to the actual rows. This makes lookups and certain queries much faster.\
	\'95	
\f8\i Performance Hit
\f2\i0 : When there are frequent inserts or updates, the database must also update each index. This can slow down write operations if you have too many indexes.\
\pard\tqr\tx460\tx620\li620\fi-620\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	18.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  
\f1\b What does Atomicity ensure in a database transaction?\
		a) Transactions are executed in isolation from other transactions.\
		b) [X] Transactions are either fully completed or not executed at all.\
		c) Transactions automatically handle conflicts between multiple users.\
		d) Transactions guarantee high availability.\

\f2\b0 	       19. What does Consistency ensure in a database transaction?\
		a) [X] Transactions preserve database integrity by transitioning from one valid state to another.\
		b) Transactions are always executed in the same order.\
		c) Transactions improve query performance.\
		d) Transactions can be partially completed if an error occurs.\
	20.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  Compare and contrast 
\f8\i Document Databases
\f2\i0  (e.g. MongoDB) with 
\f8\i Relational Databases
\f2\i0  for storing 
\f1\b nested
\f2\b0  or 
\f1\b hierarchical
\f2\b0  data. Provide at least one advantage and one disadvantage for each.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f1\b Document Databases
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Advantage
\f2\i0 : Naturally handle nested JSON-like structures without needing multiple joined tables.\
	\'95	
\f8\i Disadvantage
\f2\i0 : Complex queries (especially those resembling \'93joins\'94) can be more cumbersome or less performant.\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f1\b Relational Databases
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f8\i Advantage
\f2\i0 : Mature tooling, strong ACID guarantees, and powerful query languages (SQL).\
	\'95	
\f8\i Disadvantage
\f2\i0 : Handling deeply nested or irregular structures often requires schema changes or many JOIN operations, which can become complex and slower.\
\pard\tqr\tx460\tx620\li620\fi-620\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	21.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  
\f1\b Durability
\f2\b0  in a database means:\
a) [X] Once a transaction is committed, its data is safe even in the event of system failure\
b) Transactions can be rolled back at any time\
c) All queries are guaranteed to finish in constant time\cf3 \
\cf2 d) Data updates happen in memory without persisting to disk\
	22.	
\f1\b (Multiple Choice)
\f2\b0  Which of the following is a core benefit of using 
\f1\b Foreign Keys
\f2\b0  in relational databases?\
a) They automatically create triggers for data validation\
b) They force every table to have the same schema\
c) [X] They help maintain referential integrity by linking related rows in different tables\
d) They replace the need for primary keys entirely\
	23.	
\f1\b (Open-Ended)
\f2\b0  You are designing a new microservice that requires quick lookups by a single unique identifier and does not need complex queries. Which type of database would you choose and why? Support your answer with 
\f1\b two
\f2\b0  reasons.
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 Example Answer
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f1\b Choice
\f2\b0 : A Key-Value Store (e.g., Redis) or a simple NoSQL document store if minimal structure is needed.\
	\'95	
\f1\b Reasons
\f2\b0 :\
\pard\tqr\tx680\tx840\li840\fi-840\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	
\f1\b Speed
\f2\b0 : Key-value stores excel at very fast lookups by a single key, crucial for microservices.\
	2.	
\f1\b Simplicity & Scalability
\f2\b0 : Easy horizontal scaling. If your data model is straightforward (ID \uc0\u8594  object), relational overhead is unnecessary\
\
Case Study:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Description:\
\
InsightCorp Analytics is a mid-sized consulting firm specializing in market research and consumer behavior analysis. The company has grown rapidly over the past five years, expanding its client base across various industries. To keep up with the increasing demand for data-driven insights, they have implemented a BI system to support their analysts and improve report generation.\
\
The company recently centralized its customer and financial data into a cloud-based data warehouse. However, the sales and project management teams still rely on separate, legacy databases that are not fully integrated with the BI platform. Analysts often spend time cleaning and reconciling data from different sources before conducting in-depth analysis.\
\
While the BI team has successfully automated financial reporting, most other departments continue to rely on Excel spreadsheets for day-to-day decision-making. Some employees have expressed skepticism about BI, feeling that the new system adds complexity rather than simplifying their workflow. Additionally, while the company has invested in BI tools, ongoing training is not a priority, leading to inconsistent adoption across teams.\
\pard\tqr\tx680\tx840\li840\fi-840\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 Exam Question:\
What does the company do well? What is not so good? Please justify and propose suggestions for improvement.\
Possible Solution:\
What does the company do well?\
	\'95	The company has successfully centralized customer and financial data into a cloud-based data warehouse, which is a step toward better data management.\
	\'95	The BI team has automated financial reporting, reducing manual effort and improving efficiency in financial insights.\
	\'95	The company recognizes the importance of BI and has invested in BI tools to support data-driven decision-making.\
	\'95	The company has a growing demand for data-driven insights, indicating a market need that BI can address.\
What is not so good?\
	\'95	Data silos still exist as sales and project management teams continue using separate, legacy databases that are not fully integrated into the BI system.\
	\'95	Manual data reconciliation is still required, meaning analysts spend time cleaning and merging data instead of focusing on insights.\
	\'95	Low BI adoption across departments\'97many teams still rely on Excel rather than using the BI tools provided.\
	\'95	Skepticism and resistance to change exist among employees, suggesting that the BI system is not perceived as user-friendly.\
	\'95	Lack of ongoing training leads to inconsistent BI usage across teams, preventing the company from maximizing its investment in BI.\
}